---
layout: post
title: 'DF 0.43: Teyo Asada (454-) Dumaterith'
date: '2017-10-28T16:52:00.000-04:00'
author: Wuphon's Reach
category:
- DwarfFortress
tags:
- DF0.43
- Teyo Asada

gallery1:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/armok-vision-00455.jpg
    alt: "DF2014: Teyo Asada (455) Dumaterith Armok Vision"
    url: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/armok-vision-00455.jpg

gallery2:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/armok-vision-farms-456.jpg
    alt: "DF2014: Teyo Asada (456) Dumaterith Surface Farm"
    url: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/armok-vision-farms-456.jpg

gallery3:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/armok-vision-00456.jpg
    alt: "DF2014: Teyo Asada (456) Dumaterith Armok Vision"
    url: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/armok-vision-00456.jpg

gallery4:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/dreamy-wall-relationships-456.png
    alt: "DF2014: Teyo Asada (456) Dreamy Relationships"
    url: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/dreamy-wall-relationships-456.png

gallery5:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/siege-457-10-08.png
    alt: "DF2014: Teyo Asada (457) Dumaterith Siege"
    url: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/siege-457-10-08.png

gallery6:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/siege-457-10-16.png
    alt: "DF2014: Teyo Asada (457) Dumaterith Siege"
    url: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/siege-457-10-16.png

gallery7:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/new-shooting-wing-458.jpg
    alt: "DF2014: Teyo Asada (458) Dumaterith Entrance"
    url: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/new-shooting-wing-458.jpg

gallery8:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/armok-vision-00460.jpg
    alt: "DF2014: Teyo Asada (460) Dumaterith Armok Vision"
    url: /imgs/df/TeyoAsada/armok-vision-00460.jpg

---

## Spring 454

With fifty-nine dwarves (and only three children), we're catching up with hauling tasks and starting to create glass works and lavish meals in bulk.

The elves still fail to bring me another grizzly bear.  I'm going to trade them excess food next spring in hopes that they will bring a larger caravan in following years.

The 35 level mass pitting chamber is ready.  There are a few batches of monkeys to be pitted.

#### Migrants

- Muthkat Atisoltar
- Inod Litastning
- Kib Thabumdegel
- Mosus Robekezum
- Melbil Isancatten
- Erith Itonsholid
- Sakzul Logemmusar
- Eral Kordamkonos
- Tun Tileshurdim
- Stinthad Oshuratir
- Ezum Ducimikal

## Summer 454

The mayor has changed hands to be Erith Itonsholid.

## Autumn 454

We get to appoint a baron.  I'm going to appoint Lor Gongiththikut, who has no objectionable item preferences.

## Spring 455

The fortress is now a barony with Lor Gongiththikut as baron, and Erith Itonsholid has been re-elected to the position of mayor.

## Summer 455

I'm starting to think ahead to 150 dwarves and how many fully armored squads I want.  I'm thinking three battle axe squads and three war hammer squads.  That would be a total of sixty dwarves in full kit, plus another two squads of trainees.

The other 70 dwarves would be in militia crossbow uniforms.

My top military dwarves are:

- Ineth Kadoldodok
- Zefon Ducimlinem
- Sigun Nethrimtar (brother of king, also very old)
- Eshtan Ushuldumat
- Dodok Tinothbim
- Dastot Tishisfath (female)
- Atis Zefonducim (female)
- Erith Itonsholid (mayor)
- Ingish Adilzokun

Planned military squads:

- Axes of Funerals
- Hammers of Funerals
- Axes of Mountains
- Hammers of Mountains
- Axes of Gorges
- Hammers of Gorges
- 1st Reserve Axes
- 1st Reserve Hammers
- 2nd Reserve Axes
- 2nd Reserve Hammers
- 1st/2nd/3rd/.../9th Militia

## Winter 455

Moldath Berbesmar (wife of Melbil Asesdor) has given birth to a daughter, Aban Amalgoden.

There are now sixteen squads setup, with forty soldiers in training (28 active).  

{% include gallery id="gallery1" %}

The east-west road along the south of the embark is almost finished.  It was a long way down a slope to build out the basalt road.

## Spring 456

Lokum Muthkatedan (wife of Melbil Bomrekuvel) has given birth to a boy, Cog Onelerush.

Somewhere lies the body of Stodir Tabarmosus.  Stodir shows as dead in the unit list, but I cannot find a body anywhere.  Not even in the dfHack enhanced stocks list.  Well, I've order a slab to be engraved, maybe it will provide information:

> This is a masterful basalt memorial to Stodir Tabarmosus created by Tosid Athelnosîm.  It is encircled with bands of exceptionally worked pig bone.  This object is adorned with hanging rings of exceptionally worked pig hoof and menaces with spikes of exceptionally worked blue peafowl bone.  
>
> On the item is a masterfully designed image of Rodem, the deity of the rain, nature, the sun, fire and metals, depicted as a female dwarf in dog bone by Zuglar Oslanner.  Rodem is laughing.  
>
> The slab reads "In memory of Stodir Tabarmosus / Born 363 / Went missing in the year 456 / Lover of armor stands".

Well, not really informative.  Maybe a statue or some engraver somewhere will write down the story.

#### Surface Farms

{% include gallery id="gallery2" %}

One thing that I'm liking about my wall design (two tiles wide inside) is that the interior can be used for surface farms.  I'm able to create a lot of 2x2 or 2x3 plots to farm the various surface crops like rope reeds, blueberries, etc.

#### Fortress

{% include gallery id="gallery3" %}

The main surface fortress is starting to take shape.  The dwarves are building out the third level now and will soon start on the fourth.

#### Food Stocks

The fortress needs to start selling lavish meals (roasts) by the wagon load.  In the stocks screen, I see:

- 7900 meat
- 550 fish
- 10800 eggs
- 7000 plants
- 675 cheese
- 4100 leaves

I'm going to have to run two kitchens year-round to maybe put a dent in that.

#### Migrants

- Mebzuth Keskalkodor
- Oddom Daselalath
- Ablel Oddomakrul
- Mosus Unolzaneg (single mother of Udib Rilbetustuth)
- Udib Rilbetustuth (daughter of Mosus Unolzaneg)
- Ilral Iridfikod
- Ilral Likotkogan
- Zuglar Ugithaban

#### Draftees

The following dwarves have some military skill and are not yet drafted into one of the squads.

- Oddom Daselalath (M)
- Momuz Sedurkogan (M)
- Ilral Likotkogan (F)
- Stinthad Oshuratir (F)

That brings me up to forty-four dwarves in military squads (out of a total of seventy-nine).

## Winter 456

A vile force of darkness has arrived!

I was just lamenting to myself that I was finding this embark a bit on the quiet side.  But now the goblins have come to play!

Oh, it's only eight goblins.

Two ended up in cages, the other six were killed quickly by the axe/hammer squads.

Injured:

- Bembul Dakostalis

Bembul raced a little ahead of the other melee and got attacked by multiple goblins.  Only one got in a lucky shot and that impacted on the right hip and did damage through the steel greaves.  Even after falling over with pain, Bembul still managed to kill two of the goblins before the rest of the squad showed up.  

{% include gallery id="gallery4" %}

So it turns out that yes, you can see when wars are declared in the `c` (civilizations) screen.  Note that we are now officially at war with Smunstu Kus (The Lie of Covens).  They have probably attacked and taken a site closer to us now.

## Summer 457

Migrants!

- Zefon Luslemasob
- Nish Idenmosus
- Urist Lortosid
- Etur Morulsastres
- Doren Idenlisat
- Zuglar Sazirekast
- Eshtan Lorbamom
- Erush Oddomubal
- Thikut Zasust (wife of Iton Cogenkos)
- Iton Cogenkos (husband of Thikut Zasust)

Moldath Berbesmar, wife of Melbil Asesdor, has given birth to a girl, Kel Dumatdesis.  The couple also has a young son, Aban Amalgoden.

## Autumn 457

Migrants:

- Thob Rithstorlut
- Nil Nanirlolor
- Rigoth Lolokor

Dastot Esmosus, chief medical dwarf and wife of Domas Usanerush, has given birth to a baby girl named Iden Eturshis.  Her brother, Tulon Uzavuz, is about a year older.

Tosid Athelnosim, wife of Aban Muzishmeng, gave birth to a girl, Kol Elbeloltar.  Her brother, Eshtan Ushuldumat, is age 22.

There are now nineteen dwarves with competent (level 4) or better armor use skills.  Another fifteen have level 1+ skill.  I'll need to move about half of those into the first and second squads for axes and hammers.

## Winter 457

Another vile force of darkness has arrived.  This time it is about sixteen goblins.  Oops, more showed up, now there are thirty-two.

Found a mistake in the defensive perimeter.  One of the outer gates is not hooked up to a lever.

{% include gallery id="gallery5" %}

So even though I want to close that outer gate to lock in some goblins, I can't.  What I do have is a shooting gallery as the goblins attempt to get at the chickens on the right in the nest boxes, but they've finished that task already and are just milling around.

Killed two, captured four in cage traps so far.  I could let them into the fortress, but that is risky and my dwarves might dodge to their death.

I have the front gate open down on the lower plain, trying to tempt the goblins to go that way.  I'd rather fight them in the lower tunnels then up top.  My plan is to lure them into the tunnel cage traps, then sally forth to mop up any stragglers.

{% include gallery id="gallery6" %}

The welcome wagon is waiting for the goblins to get past the cage traps.  I'll probably get 90% in the cage traps, then chase down the stragglers.

Some humans did get killed up on the surface, but I think the diplomat got away already.

Captured 23 goblins in cages, killed a few others.

## Spring 458

Dwarves that need to be promoted:

Hammers:

- Edem Abirfikod
- Oddom Daselalath

Axes:

- Dastot Tishisfath
- Momuz Sedurkogan

Draftees (Hammers):

- Nil Nanirlolor
- Mebzuth Atheldishmab
- Udil Nethducim
- Thob Rithstorlut
- Zuglar Sazirekast

Draftees (Axes):

- Ilral Iridfikod
- Adil Oltaratol
- Melbil Bomrekuvel

More melee draftees:

- Nish Idenmosus
- Mebzuth Keskalkodor

Militia draftees:

- Atis Zefonducim
- Zefon Melbilrab
- Melbil Isancatten
- Mistem Rigothokir
- Doren Idenlisat
- Thikut Zasust

That puts fifty-seven dwarves under the military.  Four in each of the six melee squads.  A handful in each of the training squads and the rest in militia crossbow squads.

All the goblin captives have been mass-pitted, none escaped to play with the melee squads waiting in the hallway outside.

## Summer 458

I have four kitchens turning out roasts, plus three butcher shops.  So far it's working out, without stuff rotting in the kitchens.  I'm still falling behind on meat and egg consumption.  I may need to add a fifth kitchen.

Mosus Rimadvutok (wife of Sibrek Loloklisid) has given birth to a girl, Dastot Ananatis.

## Siege (458-07-02)

Yet another siege, let's see how many goblins they send this time.  Looks like about thirty-three goblins.  I'm going to bait them into the same place I did before, now with more cage traps and more bait for them to get exposed to crossbow fire.

If I can get them all inside, I will seal the bridge and send the melee squads around the long way.

Nish Idenmosus - killed by a goblin crossbow bolt

Thob Lolokashok and Domas Usanerush both enter martial trances!

Nine goblins were captured in cages, the rest were slaughtered.

Tikut Zasust is possibly injured.  Minor enough to leave the hospital after a short stay.

Lokum Muthkatedan (wife of Melbil Bomrekuvel) has given birth to a boy, Ingish Kadolstigaz.

{% include gallery id="gallery7" %}

And because the goblins are lazy buggers who always show up in the same place and hang around outside the walls, I'm adding a wing onto the fortification level which overlooks where they hang out.

## Spring 459

Dastot Esmosus, chief medical dwarf and wife of Domas Usanerush, has given birth to a boy, Zas Onolteskom.

Mosus Rimadvutok, wife of Sibrek Loloklisid, has given birth to a boy, Ushat Sazirtilesh.

## Winter 459

It's drafting time again.

Hammers:

- Ezum Ducimikal
- Eshtan Lorbamom
- Melbil Asesdor
- Inod Litastning
- Libash Ingizlular
- Sarvesh Ezumust
- Kib Thabumdegel
- Iton Cogenkos

Axes:

- Udil Nethducim
- Doren Ulololtar
- Meng Logemimush
- Eral Kordamkonos
- Zefon Luslemasob
- Kosoth Nishneth
- Sakzul Logemmusar
- Muthkat Atisoltar

That gives me at least six in each of the reserve hammer/axe squads.  Those dwarves get set to train in groups of four during the winter months and a group of two during the rest of the year.

Crossbow Militia Draftees:

- Zulgar Oslanner
- Sazir Stakudunal
- Lokum Muthkatedan
- Momuz Udsibrek
- Shorast Dorenrith
- Mosus Unolzneg
- Mosus Rimadvutok
- Tun Tileshurdim
- Mosus Thikutmistem
- Tirist Zaludushat
- Zon Iliringish
- Urist Lortosid
- Ablel Oddomakrul
- Zuglar Ugithaban
- Etur Morulsastres
- Rigoth Lolokor

All but three of the adult dwarves are now assigned to military squads.  Those remaining three were assigned as two miners and one woodcutter.  There are no active hunters in the fortress.

## Spring 460

Another vile force of darkness.  This one spawned outside the western gate on the western piece of land instead of the south piece of land.  Only 12 goblins so far have shown up.

Eighty-plus dwarves against 12 goblins.

Deaths:

- Eshtan Lorbamom, went out without a weapon and only wrestled with a goblin pikeman.  
- Sakzul Logemmusar (2nd Reserve Axes), tried to go up against a goblin lasher (iron whip) with only modest combat skills.  Bled out on the battlefield by the north river (outside the lower main entrance).

Alright, everyone go back to training.

#### Memorial to Eshtân Lorbamôm

> This is a masterful basalt memorial to Eshtân Lorbamôm created by Logem Sebsúradil.  It is decorated with exceptionally worked llama bone and encircled with bands of exceptionally worked alpaca bone.  This object menaces with spikes of exceptionally worked mussel shell.  

> The slab reads "In memory of Eshtân Lorbamôm / Born 378 / Bled to death, slain by the goblin Smunstu Doomedwall with a copper pike in Sukxusmkök, "The Squeezing Assault" in the year 460 / Lover of pig tail fabric".

> On the item is an exceptionally designed image of Dastot Clearedroom the dwarf and dwarves in pig hoof by Sibrek Loloklisid.  Dastot Clearedroom is surrounded by the dwarves.  The artwork relates to the appointment of the dwarf Dastot Clearedroom to the position of militia captain of The Splattered Road in the late autumn of 455. 

> On the item is a masterfully designed image of Bearraw the Defensive Fists the brass battle axe in pig bone by Thob Lolokashok. 

#### Memorial to Såkzul Logemmusar

> This is a masterful basalt memorial to Såkzul Logemmusar created by Logem Sebsúradil.  This object menaces with spikes of exceptionally worked llama bone and masterfully worked mussel shell by Sibrek Loloklisid. 

> On the item is an exceptionally designed image of a amphibian man in pig hoof by Sibrek Loloklisid. 

> The slab reads "In memory of Såkzul Logemmusar / Born 370 / Suffocated, slain by the goblin Zolak Lionmenace with a iron whip in Sukxusmkök, "The Squeezing Assault" in the year 460".

## Summer 460

The ettin, Taronitur Ceral Kal, has come.

That could be a bit more fun then I want, so I'm going to order everyone inside and wait for it to hit a cage trap.

Done, now I need to figure out what to do with it.

## Autumn 460

{% include gallery id="gallery8" %}

Close-up of the archery target area.  I have four firing lanes setup that are about twenty tiles long.  The dwarves stand on the end with the red circle and fire to the right.  The archery target is at the end with the red "X" on each lane.

Any bolts that miss the target will hit the side or back walls and fall down into the zero-bin stockpile.

### [Next Story Year]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017/2017-10-28-df43-TeyoAsada-454 %})
