---
layout: post
title: 'DF 0.43: Teyo Asada (408-410)'
date: '2017-10-16T10:19:00.000-04:00'
author: Wuphon's Reach
category:
- DwarfFortress
tags:
- DF0.43
- Teyo Asada

---

## Autumn 408

Thirty adults and five children in the fortress.  Let's take a look and find all of our married couples:

- Onget Asumer (M) / Sakzul Tathtatzaneg (F)
- Tun Uznil (M) / Ilral Kekimber (F)
- Onol Odasen (M) / Led Shembomrek (F)
- Edem Abirfikod (M) / Aban Sedurushat (F)
- Oddom Atisast (M, not present) / Cog Alathneth (F)
- Ubbul Fikodedtul (M, not present) / Asen Lertethvutok (F)

So of my six husband/wife pairings, two do not have their husband in the fortress.  I'll have to raise the population cap slightly and see if they migrate to our fortress.

There's also the scandal of Ilral Kolangen (baroness) and Dastot Logemkoman (miner) being lovers, but not marrying.

## Winter 408

Boosting the population limit to 45 dwarves.

Feb Kubuksebir, a dwarf chemist, has arrived and is visting the temple of Rodem.

## Spring 409

We get told off by the elves because we've been harvesting trees.

Uzol Og has been made into a duchy.  Now the duchess wants improved lodgings and the manufacture of coins.

Migrants:

- Urvad Eteserith (husband of Atis Zefonducim)
- Atis Zefonducim (wife of Urvad)
- Endok Alathtangath
- Nil Vutokfeb
- Solon Othilgusil
- Stinthad Morulsefol 
- Kulet Cattenmuthir
- Urvad Rithrithzam (child of Urvad and Atis)

Sadly, neither Oddom or Ubbul (husbands of Cog and Asen) have migrated.

## Summer 409

Mistem Sibrekostuk has grown up to be an adult dwarf.  She'll get assigned to furnaces and possibly the minting of coins for the realm.

The human diplomat, Puti Isacsina, reports that the Sins of Gilding (goblins) are still pillaging Gemtusk.

Kikrost Kirarvucar has also grown up.

## Winter 409

I have filled up the first militia squad with ten dwarves.  Also started a second squad and filled that with 10 dwarves.  I'll do a third miltia squad next year.

## Spring 410

The elven diplomat, Enina Inirenisa, has arrived.  I'm sure they will yell at me for tree cutting.  They gave us a quota of 119 trees this year.

Also another wall of text.  There is an army called the Lie of Covens marching around, but it's not clear whether it's a human / goblin / dwarf army since it's led by the elf, Masami Mobbedsatins the Stale Guilt, Dourness of Walks.

Elves brought a grizzly bear!  To the trade depot!  Guess I'll buy the cougar as well.  But before I do either, I need to check my dfHack autobutcher settings.  My default settings are such that adults of any new species are instantly butchered and only 3 male and 3 female young are allowed to live.

Eh, the cougar is not war-trainable.  To the slaughterhouse with it.

The female grizzly bear will be assigned to the duchess, who is in charge of training it for war.  I really hope the elves bring a male grizzly next year.

## Autumn 410

Hoping to trade with the dwarven caravan for lots of steel, iron and bronze items that can be melted.  

Boosting the population cap to 65.

Thirty dwarves now in militia squads.

My budget for the number of animals on the `z` screen is about 120.  Higher then that and I run into issues with FPS.  At the moment, due to buying out the caravan I have a count of 347 animals.

Female egglayers are not too bad on FPS, because they can be auto-assigned to nestboxes pastures (1x1 pasture zones over a nestbox).

Budget:

- 18 pigs (5f+5m piglets, 5 adult female, 3 adult male)
- 11 cats (3f+3m kittens, 2 adult females, 3 adult males)
- 20 dogs (5f+5m puppies, 3 adult females, 7 adult males)
- 20 turkeys (7f+3m poults, 7 adult females, 3 adult males)
- 20 peafowl (7f+3m peachicks, 7 adult females, 3 adult males)
- 5 of other birds (only 5 adult females are allowed to live)
- 15 alpacas (4f+2m young, 5 adult female, 3 adult male)
- 15 sheep (4f+2m young, 5 adult female, 3 adult male)
- 15 llamas (4f+2m young, 5 adult female, 3 adult male)
- 20 grizzly bears (5f+5m cubs, 3 adult females, 7 adult males)

These are all used as dfHack `autobutcher` targets and put on the watch list.

## Winter 410

A werelizard, Tira Tisewama (elf), has shown up.  Killed three of the dwarves before the gates could shut it out.

- Stinthad Morulsefol (civilian)
- Endok Alathtangath (civilian)
- Tholtig Atheldaka (marksdwarf)

I'm not surprised that Endok and Stinthad died, they had no armor.  The recruit, Tholtig, gave up a bit more of a fight but lost hold of the crossbow early on and had to depend on an iron shield for protection.

Still, they managed to hold a (poorly fought) delaying action allowing the reset of the dwarves to get inside.

I need to setup watch towers along the main approaches soon.  Or at least pasture a wardog along each route in.

## Deceased

#### Endok Alathtangath (civilian)

Arrived at Uzol Og on the 24th of Granite, 409.  No family or close friends.

#### Tholtig Atheldaka (marksdwarf)

Daughter of Sarvesh Dostobkadol (mother) and Solon Koltath (father), neither have migrated to Uzol Og.  She migrated in the [year 396]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017/2017-10-13-df43-TeyoAsada-396-Embark %}) (one of the first migrants).

Relatives at Uzol Og are:

- Atir Atolalath (brother)
- Led Shembomrek (aunt)
- Ilral Kekimber (aunt, fort manager)
- Onul Odasen (uncle)
- Tun Uznil (uncle, militia commander)
- Olin Odkol (uncle)
- Aban Lertethvabok (niece)
- Avuz Logemiektad (cousin)
- Mistem Sibrekostuk (cousin)
- Kikrost Kiravucar (cousin)
- Oddom Geshudmeban (cousin)

It's a very big family.  The brother, Atir, is a macedwarf that is visiting The Abbey of Soaking (our temple to Rodem) and who is also curious about The Church of Purifying (our temple to Erib the Tower of Fountains).

#### Stinthad Morulsefol (civilian)

Also arrived on the 24th of Granite, 409.  No family or friends that I can find.
