---
layout: post
title: 'DF 0.43: Zaludoram World'
date: '2017-03-20T12:41:00.000-04:00'
author: Wuphon's Reach
category:
- DwarfFortress
tags:
- DF0.43
- Zaludoram

gallery1ec:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/zaludoram/evisc-chambers-defeat.png
    alt: "DF2014: Eviscerated Chambers (Zaludoram)"
    url: /imgs/df/zaludoram/evisc-chambers-defeat.png

gallery1eb:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/zaludoram/eviscerated-bolt-defeat.png
    alt: "DF2014: Eviscerated Bolt (Zaludoram)"
    url: /imgs/df/zaludoram/eviscerated-bolt-defeat.png

gallery1ss:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/zaludoram/salves-of-skinning-defeat.png
    alt: "DF2014: Salves of Skinning (Zaludoram)"
    url: /imgs/df/zaludoram/salves-of-skinning-defeat.png

gallery1oc:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/zaludoram/zalu-old-clasps-defeated.png
    alt: "DF2014: Old Clasps (Zaludoram)"
    url: /imgs/df/zaludoram/zalu-old-clasps-defeated.png

gallerymap:
  - image_path: /imgs/df/zaludoram/Zaludoram-00750-01-01-world_map.png
    alt: "DF2014: World Map (Zaludoram)"
    url: /imgs/df/zaludoram/Zaludoram-00750-01-01-world_map.png


---

Welcome to Zaludoram (The Future World), year 750.  This is a [medium sized custom generated world](/blog/imgs/df/zaludoram/Zaludoram-world_gen_param.txt) for Dwarf Fortress 43.05.  Minor historical figures were culled and history is hidden by default, so there will be limited details available prior to getting into the game.

XX include gallery id="gallerymap" %}

Current population in year 750:

    2469 Dwarves
	2770 Humans
	555 Elves
	64710 Goblins
	2054 Kobolds

	Total: 72558

There were nine dwarven civilizations at the start of recorded history.  At least four of them have been wiped out.

- The Destined Labor
- The Eviscerated Bolt (defeated)
- The Eviscerated Chambers (defeated)
- The Gray Citadel
- The Mine of Gleams
- The Old Clasps (defeated)
- The Salves of Skinning (defeated)
- The Silvers of Muting
- The Simple Smith

## The Destined Labor

Seems to be a healthy dwarven civilization, with a dwarven fortress named "Bodicebored" (south portion of the map).  It was settled at the dawn of time and the dwarves attempted to settle a few other sites, all of which have fallen.  The most recent interesting event was the creation of "The Mountainhome: A Quandary" by "Mestthos Sanctumwhip". 

    "Bodicebored", fortress
	Owner: The Bells of Gripping, dwarves
	Parent Civ: The Destined Labor, dwarves
	277 dwarves

## The Eviscerated Bolt (defeated)

XX include gallery id="gallery1eb" %}

## The Eviscerated Chambers (defeated)

XX include gallery id="gallery1ec" %}

## The Gray Citadel

These dwarves created "Walledtoes" and "Treasuremined" and were close neighbors to the Silvers of Muting along the northwest map edge.  Both fortresses survive to this day.

    Adilnin, "Walledtoes", fortress
	Owner: The Knowing Sling, dwarves
	Parent Civ: The Gray Citadel, dwarves
	193 dwarves

    "Treasuremined", fortress
	Owner: The Pulley of Flanking, dwarves
	Parent Civ: The Gray Citadel, dwarves
	248 dwarves

## The Mine of Gleams

Founded the fortress, "Ringbend", right in the center of the map, taken over in year 40 by the forgotten beast "Shethel Sewerzealot the Glumness of Fragments".  The hillock, Oilyodor, fell to a dragon named "Kima Glowwarm the Fiery Flame" in year 40.  Looking through the list, I see a hillock named "Eaglecrafts", which is apparently a very rough place to live with the night creatures and were-humans constantly fighting with the dwarves.  The other hillock is Mirrorplans, and it also has similar problems.

    "Eaglecrafts", hillocks
	Owner: The Tongs of Wringing, dwarves
	Parent Civ: The Mine of Gleams, dwarves
	105 dwarves

    "Mirrorplans", hillocks
	Owner: The Blameless Smith, dwarves
	Parent Civ: The Mine of Gleams, dwarves
	96 dwarves

Ah, here we go, the fortress named "Helmsummers" still exists, but I suspect it is infested by a forgotten beast, Ana Creviceechoed the Dead Suckers, that settled in 144.  Over a hundred years later, in 257, the elf Ola Wondrouschannels settled in Helmsummers and has been writing books for almost 500 years.  Other humans have settled here.  It's very odd that the forgotten beast has not attacked the humans and elves.

    Zonisram, "Helmssummers", fortress
	46 humans
	2 elves
	1 forgotten beast
	1 goblin

## The Old Clasps (defeated)

XX include gallery id="gallery1oc" %}

## The Salves of Skinning (defeated)

XX include gallery id="gallery1ss" %}

## The Silvers of Muting

Another civilization with not much of note.  Their current fortress is "Inchedgravel", up in the northwest part of the map.  Close neighbors to the Grey Citadel.

    "Inchedgravel", fortress
	Owner: The Dominant Trumpet, dwarves
	Parent Civ: The Silvers of Muting, dwarves
	256 dwarves

## The Simple Smith

Founded Gorgedleaves (south edge).

    Eribgovos, "Gorgeleaves", fortress
	Owner: The Rumored Roof, dwarves
	Parent Civ: The Simple Smith, dwarves
	266 dwarves
